README.md, before:

# Kuesa module for Qt 3D

![alt text](https://github.com/KDAB/kuesa/blob/dev/examples/kuesa/assets/misc/kuesa_carscene.png)


Kuesa is a module for Qt 3D which provides:
* Support for glTF 2 importing
* Helpers for accessing and manipulating loaded content
* Custom PBR material
* Custom forward renderer for adding effects
* A Qt Creator template for quickly creating new Kuesa based projects

## Requirements

**Note:** this repository requires [git-lfs](https://git-lfs.github.com) support.

Kuesa requires Qt 3D from Qt 5.12.5, Qt 5.13.1 or later.

Instructions on how to build Qt from source can be found [here](https://wiki.qt.io/Building_Qt_5_from_Git)

### Hardware

#### Desktop

Anything with OpenGL 3.2 support (or more recent) is adequate.

Currently supported operating systems are:
* Linux
* Windows
* Mac OS

#### Embedded

Here's a list of Chipsets/Devices Kuesa has successfully been tested on:
* Apple iPad 5 (PowerVR GT7600)
* Apple iPhone 7
* OnePlus 3T (Android, Qualcolmm Snapdragon 821/Adreno 430)
* NVidia Tegra K1 (embedded Linux)
* iMX8 (embedded Linux)

Kuesa supports anything with OpenGL ES 3.2 or above.

OpenGL ES 3.1 or lower is supported but with a limited feature set depending on available OpenGL extensions.
* For HDR support, GL_OES_texture_half_float is required
* For anti aliasing, ARB_texture_multisample and GL_EXT_color_buffer_half_float are required

## Optional Dependencies

Kuesa can optionnally use the [Draco](https://github.com/google/draco) mesh compression library,
either through an embedded version, or a version present on the system.
Draco can be used to dramatically decrease the size of glTF files.

Kuesa supports the ``KHR_draco_mesh_compression`` glTF extension as defined [here](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/glTF/blob/master/extensions/2.0/Khronos/KHR_draco_mesh_compression/).

By default, Kuesa will build with its own embedded version of the Draco library.
This can be enforced with:

    qmake kuesa.pro -- --draco=qt

To build Kuesa without any support for Draco, run qmake like this:

    qmake kuesa.pro -- --draco=no

To build Kuesa with an external version of Draco, run qmake like this:

    qmake kuesa.pro -- --draco=system

If Draco is not installed in the default location on your system, you can
set the `DRACOSDK` environment variable to point to where Draco is installed.
Use the `DRACOSDK_LIBS` environment variable to point to the folder containing
the Draco libraries.

Note that Kuesa has last been tested with Draco at commit 8833cf878e6fd43c5a3fd6e4231212e25e25e632.

The glTF editor, provided with Kuesa, is able to compress existing glTF 2.0
assets with Draco.

## Components

Kuesa is composed of:
* A Qt module with core classes
* A QML plugin
* The gltfEditor tool to preview and process glTF 2.0 files
* The assetprocessor, a command line tool to compress meshes, embed or extract binary assets, etc
* A simple glTFViewer application to view files, including selecting cameras and animations
* The cubemaptooctahedralmap tool to convert cube maps to octahedral maps
  to enable PBR rendering on ES 2 platforms

### glTF Editor

![alt text](https://github.com/KDAB/kuesa/blob/dev/examples/kuesa/assets/misc/kuesa_ape.png)

The glTF Editor can be used both by the designer and developer in order
to preview and pre-process the content of glTF files.

The designers will use the editor to check the rendering of the scene,
verify that materials are correct, preview animations, etc.

The developers will also use the editor check model properties such as sizes,
asset names, etc.

The editor can also be used to compress meshes, embed (or extract) binary assets, etc.

In the 3d view, use the mouse to click on meshes to select them in the collection browser.
Use:
* Simple click to select meshes
* Shift-click to select materials
* Alt-click to select entities

## Installation

Kuesa builds as a Qt module and will be installed alongside Qt.

    qmake
    make
    make install

Should examples not be built, try:

    make sub-examples
    cd examples
    make install

To install the Qt Creator template, copy the entire kuesa folder
from ``tools/qtc_templates`` to the ``templates/wizards`` folder inside
the Qt Creator install location.

## Documentation

The reference documentation is available at: https://kdab.github.io/kuesa/

## 3rd-party
Kuesa uses the following 3rd-party software:
* Qt 5.12 or later, licensed under LGPLv3
www.qt.io

* Draco, licensed under Apache License 2.0 and authored by Google Inc.
https://github.com/google/draco

* MikkTSpace, licensed under a custom license and authored by Morten S. Mikkelsen
http://mmikkelsen3d.blogspot.com/

## Python Binding

A python binding it available, based on PySide 2. Please check the build instructions
in the ``src/python`` and the sample application in ``examples/kuesa/python``.

## Support

Please file issues [here](https://github.com/KDAB/Kuesa/issues)

## About KDAB

Kuesa is maintained by Klarälvdalens Datakonsult AB (KDAB).

KDAB, the Qt experts, provide consulting and mentoring for developing
Qt applications from scratch and in porting from all popular and legacy
frameworks to Qt. We continue to help develop parts of Qt and are one
of the major contributors to the Qt Project. KDAB is also behind the development effort of the Qt 3D module. We can give advanced or standard trainings anywhere around the globe.

Commit message:

Add more detailed instructions related to building from source
In particular requirements due to Kuesa being a Qt module.

Change-Id: Ic179cd4e0e26a8122f308fa105d12039c71d34db
Reviewed-on: https://codereview.kdab.com/c/kuesa/kuesa/+/75012
Reviewed-by: Paul Lemire <paul.lemire@kdab.com>

README.md, after:

# Kuesa module for Qt 3D

![alt text](https://github.com/KDAB/kuesa/blob/dev/examples/kuesa/assets/misc/kuesa_carscene.png)


Kuesa is a module for Qt 3D which provides:
* Support for glTF 2 importing
* Helpers for accessing and manipulating loaded content
* Custom PBR material
* Custom forward renderer for adding effects
* A Qt Creator template for quickly creating new Kuesa based projects

## Requirements

**Note:** this repository requires [git-lfs](https://git-lfs.github.com) support.

Kuesa requires Qt 3D from Qt 5.12.5, Qt 5.13.1 or later.

### Hardware

#### Desktop

Anything with OpenGL 3.2 support (or more recent) is adequate.

Currently supported operating systems are:
* Linux
* Windows
* Mac OS

#### Embedded

Here's a list of Chipsets/Devices Kuesa has successfully been tested on:
* Apple iPad 5 (PowerVR GT7600)
* Apple iPhone 7
* OnePlus 3T (Android, Qualcolmm Snapdragon 821/Adreno 430)
* NVidia Tegra K1 (embedded Linux)
* iMX8 (embedded Linux)

Kuesa supports anything with OpenGL ES 3.2 or above.

OpenGL ES 3.1 or lower is supported but with a limited feature set depending on available OpenGL extensions.
* For HDR support, GL_OES_texture_half_float is required
* For anti aliasing, ARB_texture_multisample and GL_EXT_color_buffer_half_float are required

## Optional Dependencies

Kuesa can optionnally use the [Draco](https://github.com/google/draco) mesh compression library,
either through an embedded version, or a version present on the system.
Draco can be used to dramatically decrease the size of glTF files.

Kuesa supports the ``KHR_draco_mesh_compression`` glTF extension as defined [here](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/glTF/blob/master/extensions/2.0/Khronos/KHR_draco_mesh_compression/).

By default, Kuesa will build with its own embedded version of the Draco library.
This can be enforced with:

    qmake kuesa.pro -- --draco=qt

To build Kuesa without any support for Draco, run qmake like this:

    qmake kuesa.pro -- --draco=no

To build Kuesa with an external version of Draco, run qmake like this:

    qmake kuesa.pro -- --draco=system

If Draco is not installed in the default location on your system, you can
set the `DRACOSDK` environment variable to point to where Draco is installed.
Use the `DRACOSDK_LIBS` environment variable to point to the folder containing
the Draco libraries.

Note that Kuesa has last been tested with Draco at commit 8833cf878e6fd43c5a3fd6e4231212e25e25e632.

The glTF editor, provided with Kuesa, is able to compress existing glTF 2.0
assets with Draco.

## Components

Kuesa is composed of:
* A Qt module with core classes
* A QML plugin
* The gltfEditor tool to preview and process glTF 2.0 files
* The assetprocessor, a command line tool to compress meshes, embed or extract binary assets, etc
* A simple glTFViewer application to view files, including selecting cameras and animations
* The cubemaptooctahedralmap tool to convert cube maps to octahedral maps
  to enable PBR rendering on ES 2 platforms

### glTF Editor

![glTF Editor](https://github.com/KDAB/kuesa/blob/dev/examples/kuesa/assets/misc/kuesa_ape.png)

The glTF Editor can be used both by the designer and developer in order
to preview and pre-process the content of glTF files.

The designers will use the editor to check the rendering of the scene,
verify that materials are correct, preview animations, etc.

The developers will also use the editor check model properties such as sizes,
asset names, etc.

The editor can also be used to compress meshes, embed (or extract) binary assets, etc.

In the 3d view, use the mouse to click on meshes to select them in the collection browser.
Use:
* Simple click to select meshes
* Shift-click to select materials
* Alt-click to select entities

## Installation

Kuesa builds as a Qt module and will be installed alongside Qt. The main advantage
is that once installed, using Kuesa in your projects is as easy as adding ``QT += kuesa``
to your project file. The down side is that building Kuesa from source can be a little
more complicated if you're not used to building Qt itself already.

*Note*: you DO NOT have to build Qt from source, building Kuesa against a pre-installed
version of Qt should work fine.

But building a module means that Kuesa has dependencies that are similar to those that
apply when building Qt from source (Instructions on how to build Qt from source can be
found [here](https://wiki.qt.io/Building_Qt_5_from_Git)). In particular:
* perl must be installed and included in the PATH
* if you have downloaded Kuesa as an archive from github, you must create an
  empty ``.git`` folder at the root of the kuesa source directory.

Once these are installed, ``syncqt`` will be able to generate the module headers at
build time. Simply run:

    qmake
    make
    make install

Should examples not be built, try:

    make sub-examples
    cd examples
    make install

To install the Qt Creator template, copy the entire kuesa folder
from ``tools/qtc_templates`` to the ``templates/wizards`` folder inside
the Qt Creator install location.

## Documentation

The reference documentation is available at: https://kdab.github.io/kuesa/

## 3rd-party
Kuesa uses the following 3rd-party software:
* Qt 5.12 or later, licensed under LGPLv3
www.qt.io

* Draco, licensed under Apache License 2.0 and authored by Google Inc.
https://github.com/google/draco

* MikkTSpace, licensed under a custom license and authored by Morten S. Mikkelsen
http://mmikkelsen3d.blogspot.com/

## Python Binding

A python binding it available, based on PySide 2. Please check the build instructions
in the ``src/python`` and the sample application in ``examples/kuesa/python``.

## Support

Please file issues [here](https://github.com/KDAB/Kuesa/issues)

## About KDAB

Kuesa is maintained by Klarälvdalens Datakonsult AB (KDAB).

KDAB, the Qt experts, provide consulting and mentoring for developing
Qt applications from scratch and in porting from all popular and legacy
frameworks to Qt. We continue to help develop parts of Qt and are one
of the major contributors to the Qt Project. KDAB is also behind the development effort of the Qt 3D module. We can give advanced or standard trainings anywhere around the globe.
